Create Telegraf commands and flags doc (#3382)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/telegraf/v1.20/administration/commands.md

---
title: Telegraf commands and flags
description: The `telegraf` command starts and runs all the processes necessary for Telegraf to function.
menu:
  telegraf_1_20:
    name: Commands
    weight: 20
    parent: Administration
---

The `telegraf` command starts and runs all the processes necessary for Telegraf to function.

## Usage

```
telegraf [commands]
telegraf [flags]
```

## Commands

> +-----------+------------------------------------------------+
> | Command   | Description                                    |
> +-----------+------------------------------------------------+
> | `config`  | Print out full sample configuration to stdout. |
> +-----------+------------------------------------------------+
> | `version` | Print version to stdout.                       |
> +-----------+------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: This isn't a valid markdown table.
```suggestion

| Command   | Description                                    |
| :-------- | :--------------------------------------------- |
| `config`  | Print out full sample configuration to stdout. |
| `version` | Print version to stdout.                       |
```

## Flags

> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | Flag                   | Description                                                                                                                    |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--aggregator-filter <filter>`  | Filter the aggregators to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                            |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--config <file>`          | Specify the configuration file to load.                                                                                        |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--config-directory <directory>`   | Specify a directory containing additional *.conf files                                                                         |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--watch-config`       | Telegraf will restart on local config changes.                                                                                 |
> |                        |  Monitor changes using either fs notifications or polling. Valid values are `inotify` or `poll`.                               |
> |                        |  Monitoring is off by default.                                                                                                 |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--plugin-directory <directory>`   | Specify the directory containing *.so files to search recursively for plugins. Any plugin found will be loaded, tagged, and identified. |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--debug`              | Enable debug logging.                                                                                                          |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--input-filter <filter>`      | Filter the inputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                 |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--input-list`         | Print available input plugins.                                                                                                 |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--output-filter `     | Filter the outputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--output-list`        | Print available output plugins.                                                                                                |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--pidfile <file>`           | Specify the file to write PID to.                                                                                          |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--pprof-addr <address>`         | Specify pprof address to listen on. This flag  will not activate pprof if empty.                                               |
> |                        |                                                                                                                                |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--processor-filter <filter>`  | Filter the processors to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                             |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--quiet`              | Run in quiet mode.                                                                                                             |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--section-filter <filter>`     | Filter config sections to output. Separator is `:`.                                                                            |
> |                        |  Valid values are `agent`, `global_tags`, `outputs`, `processors`, `aggregators` and `inputs`.                                 |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--sample-config`      | Print out full sample configuration.                                                                                           |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--once`               | Enable once mode: gather metrics once, write them, and exit.                                                                   |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--test`               | Enable test mode: gather metrics once and print them.                                                                          |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--test-wait`          | Wait up to the specified number of seconds for service inputs to complete in test or once mode.                                |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--usage <plugin>`              | Print usage for a plugin. For example, `telegraf --usage mysql`.                                                               |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
> | `--version`            | Display the version and exit.                                                                                                  |
> +------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Flag                             | Description                                                                                                                       |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--aggregator-filter <filter>`   | Filter aggregators to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                   |
| `--config <file>`                | Configuration file to load.                                                                                                       |
| `--config-directory <directory>` | Directory containing additional `*.conf` files                                                                                    |
| `--watch-config`                 | Restart Telegraf on local config changes. Use either fs notifications (`inotify`) or polling (`poll`). Disabled by default        |
| `--plugin-directory <directory>` | Directory containing `*.so` files to search recursively for plugins. Found plugins are loaded, tagged, and identified.            |
| `--debug`                        | Enable debug logging.                                                                                                             |
| `--input-filter <filter>`        | Filter inputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                        |
| `--input-list`                   | Print available input plugins.                                                                                                    |
| `--output-filter`                | Filter outputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                       |
| `--output-list`                  | Print available output plugins.                                                                                                   |
| `--pidfile <file>`               | File to write PID to.                                                                                                             |
| `--pprof-addr <address>`         | pprof address to listen on. Disabled by default.                                                                                  |
| `--processor-filter <filter>`    | Filter processors to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                    |
| `--quiet`                        | Run in quiet mode.                                                                                                                |
| `--section-filter <filter>`      | Filter config sections to output (`agent`, `global_tags`, `outputs`, `processors`, `aggregators` and `inputs`). Separator is `:`. |
| `--sample-config`                | Print full sample configuration.                                                                                                  |
| `--once`                         | Gather metrics once, write them, and exit.                                                                                        |
| `--test`                         | Gather metrics once and print them.                                                                                               |
| `--test-wait`                    | Number of seconds to wait for service inputs to complete in test or once mode.                                                    |
| `--usage <plugin>`               | Print plugin usage (example: `telegraf --usage mysql`).                                                                           |
| `--version`                      | Print Telegraf version                                                                                                            |
```

## Examples

### Generate a telegraf config file

> `telegraf config > telegraf.conf`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf config > telegraf.conf
```
~~~

### Generate config with only CPU input and InfluxDB output plugins defined

> `telegraf --input-filter cpu --output-filter influxdb config`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf --input-filter cpu --output-filter influxdb config
```
~~~

### Run a single Telegraf collection, outputting metrics to stdout

> `telegraf --config telegraf.conf --test`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf --test
```
~~~

### Run telegraf with all plugins defined in config file:**

> `telegraf --config telegraf.conf`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf
```
~~~

### Run Telegraf, enabling the CPU and memory inputs and InfluxDB output plugins:**

> `telegraf --config telegraf.conf --input-filter cpu:mem --output-filter influxdb`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf --input-filter cpu:mem --output-filter influxdb
```
~~~

### Run Telegraf with pprof

> `telegraf --config telegraf.conf --pprof-addr localhost:6060`

Reviewer: ~~~suggestion
```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf --pprof-addr localhost:6060
```
~~~

menu:
  telegraf_1_20:
    name: Commands
    weight: 20
    parent: Administration
---

The `telegraf` command starts and runs all the processes necessary for Telegraf to function.

## Usage

```
telegraf [commands]
telegraf [flags]
```

## Commands

| Command   | Description                                    |
| :-------- | :--------------------------------------------- |
| `config`  | Print out full sample configuration to stdout. |
| `version` | Print version to stdout.                       |

## Flags

| Flag                             | Description                                                                                                                       |
| :------------------------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `--aggregator-filter <filter>`   | Filter aggregators to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                   |
| `--config <file>`                | Configuration file to load.                                                                                                       |

> | `--config-directory <directory>` | Directory containing additional `*.conf` files                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--config-directory <directory>` | Directory containing additional `*.conf` files.                                                                                    |
```

> | `--watch-config`                 | Restart Telegraf on local config changes. Use either fs notifications (`inotify`) or polling (`poll`). Disabled by default        |

Reviewer 2: does it make sense to spell out config for consistency, and use `config`only when referring to commands or file extension?

| `--plugin-directory <directory>` | Directory containing `*.so` files to search recursively for plugins. Found plugins are loaded, tagged, and identified.            |
| `--debug`                        | Enable debug logging.                                                                                                             |

> | `--input-filter <filter>`        | Filter inputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--input-filter <filter>`        | Filter input plugins to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                        |
```

| `--input-list`                   | Print available input plugins.                                                                                                    |

> | `--output-filter`                | Filter outputs to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--output-filter`                | Filter output plugins to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                       |
```

| `--output-list`                  | Print available output plugins.                                                                                                   |
| `--pidfile <file>`               | File to write PID to.                                                                                                             |
| `--pprof-addr <address>`         | pprof address to listen on. Disabled by default.                                                                                  |

> | `--processor-filter <filter>`    | Filter processors to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--processor-filter <filter>`    | Filter processor plugins to enable. Separator is `:`.                                                                                    |
```

| `--quiet`                        | Run in quiet mode.                                                                                                                |
| `--section-filter <filter>`      | Filter config sections to output (`agent`, `global_tags`, `outputs`, `processors`, `aggregators` and `inputs`). Separator is `:`. |
| `--sample-config`                | Print full sample configuration.                                                                                                  |
| `--once`                         | Gather metrics once, write them, and exit.                                                                                        |
| `--test`                         | Gather metrics once and print them.                                                                                               |

> | `--test-wait`                    | Number of seconds to wait for service inputs to complete in test or once mode.                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--test-wait`                    | Number of seconds to wait for service inputs to complete in `test` or `once` mode.                                                    |
```

Reviewer 2: would it be accurate to say service input plugins here? or add note to clarify that we refer to "configuration sections" as "plugins"...and "input plugins" as "inputs," or other terms we commonly use interchangeably?

| `--usage <plugin>`               | Print plugin usage (example: `telegraf --usage mysql`).                                                                           |

> | `--version`                      | Print Telegraf version                                                                                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--version`                      | Print Telegraf version.                                                                                                            |
```

## Examples

> ### Generate a telegraf config file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Generate a Telegraf config file
```

```sh
telegraf config > telegraf.conf
```

### Generate config with only CPU input and InfluxDB output plugins defined

```sh
telegraf --input-filter cpu --output-filter influxdb config
```

> ### Run a single Telegraf collection, outputting metrics to stdout

Reviewer 2: is "collection" a commonly used term for all configured plugins?

Author: @sjwang90

Reviewer 3: Nah, I think collection should be "configuration"

```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf --test
```

> ### Run telegraf with all plugins defined in config file:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run Telegraf with all plugins defined in config file**
```

```sh
telegraf --config telegraf.conf
```

> ### Run Telegraf, enabling the CPU and memory inputs and InfluxDB output plugins:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Run Telegraf, enabling the CPU and memory input plugins and InfluxDB output plugin**
```
